# SURP2020
To host tests and materials for my research project comparing driving and video games.

## Questions for the application:
### Please, describe your research project. Your description should include background information, project objectives and the specific goals you plan to accomplish during the 6-week program.


There have been several studies that have looked at the effects of video games on a subject's emotional state, tendency towards violence, or academic performance. Video games are often seen as a time waster or an obsessive hobby that many cling to in times of stress or boredom. While this may be true for many, there may be some unseen benefits of playing these games. Other research projects have shown that those who participate in video games may have a plethora of heightened skills such as coordination, problem - solving, memory, reaction time, and ability to track multiple objects at once. But, it still may seem like these abilities might not have a direct impact on our every day lives. 
Driving is an action millions of people take part in everyday, yet little thought is put into how dangerous driving can be. To effectively drive safely, one must keep track of multiple cars around them on the road and exercise quick reaction times to respond to unexpected obstacles. Drivers must also keep in mind their destination while staying present on the road. Many of these necessary skills overlap with the benefits that video games provide. I would like to study the variables of driving ability and video game aptitude. My objective is to apply research skills to data obtained from sampling and surveys to find a correlation between a subject's driving record and time spent playing applicable video games. 
### Clearly state how you plan to accomplish the goals listed in your project description. Identify the specific steps necessary to perform your research.


Even though the 2020 SURP will be held remotely, this should not have too much of an effect on my research. The first step of my project would be to find subjects to survey. I would like to find a total of 30 people, ideally broken down into 15 people aged younger than 30, and 15 older than thirty to account for age differences in reaction time or hand-eye coordination.
The next step would be to quantify their video game prowess. This can be done by using an APM (actions per minute) test, in which the subject is required to click fast-appearing numbers in descending order as fast as they can. This can be a measure on how well a person is able to track multiple objects at once. Another test I will administer is a reaction time test, in which a participant will click a button as fast they can after a signal is given. A program I will write will record the time between the signal and the participant's reaction. These two tests combined will give some insight into a subjects driving capabilities.
The third measure I will use is a simple survey. This self-report survey is meant to gain some insight into a subject's driving history and video game usage. Such items on the survey on driving will include, "How long have you been driving?", "Have you been in a car accident in the last 5 years?" and "Would you consider the accident your fault?". These questions will give understanding into the subjects driving capabilities and driving history. Questions looking into video games usage include: "Do you play video games?", "What video games do you play?", "Would you say these video games require a high level of skill?", and "How long have you played video games?" There are some video games that do not require the transferable skills also used in driving. For example, a slow, strategy based game, such as Farmville or Pokemon, does not require tracking multiple objects or quick reaction time. Faster games, such as first person shooters or fighting games, require the user to react quickly to other fighters or track many enemies at once. These items on the survey will help me eliminate users who only play the slow, strategy games. By using the skills learned in my computer science courses at LMU, I will be able to create a website in which the participants will take the APM and reaction time tests and self-report survey. Using this data, I will then use the appropriate statistical measures to observe the relationship between video games and driving capacity. 
### Please provide a detailed 6-week timeline for the completion of your research project goals. Be sure to address the goals listed in your project description.


In the first week of the research project, I plan to set up the website for participants to use. I will need to create the three measures and a data base to receive the participants' answers. From the second week to the 5th week, I will be recruiting subjects and waiting for their results. As previously stated, I wish to find participants who both satisfy my constraints of being in the ideal age range, and owning a drivers license. I have given myself extended time to find subjects because I forsee some difficulties finding both the adequate amount and suitable candidates for my study. I'd like to survey a younger and older group of subjects equally, however, I'm not sure how many people over 30 I will be able to find who also play video games. In the fifth and sixth week, I will have all my data collected and begin to analyze the data. I will write and finish my final report by the sixth week. 
### Please list any previous research experience you may have. This may include applicable course work, and/or other relevant research or past projects within the Office of Research & Creative Arts programs.


Although I have never participated in a research project at LMU, I do have experience in relevant courses related to my proposed project. In my computer science classes, I have learned how to create and set up a website, which is what I will need to distribute my tests. With the help of my professor, I know I will be able to create accurate and reliable tests with which to collect data. I have also taken two psychology courses at LMU, General Psychology and Statistics for Psychology. Both of these classes have introduced me to the elements required in a correlational study such as this one, and the processes behind analyzing data. After learning how to set up experiments in General Psychology, and how to properly analyze data with various tests in Statistics for Psychology, I feel adequately prepared to analyze this data and conduct this study.
### Please explain how this particular research project will benefit you in your field of study and with future career plans.


I originally became a computer science major because of my love of video games and the ways it has impacted my life. I have also wanted to find real world applications for video games and the possibility of finding a tangible correlation is very intriguing. By researching if driving is indeed affected by playing video games, my captivation will only increase. In the future, I would like to work for a video game company or at a tech firm as a software developer. By finding a real world application for an area of computer science that I personally patronize often, I hope to gain a deeper insight into video games and the thought that goes into them. Furthermore, this project will allow me to practice the skills I've learned so far in my computer science classes in a practical way. I will be able to master the techniques I've acquired so far which will help me in future computer science classes. 
### Please include a description below of how your research can be conducted remotely.


As previously stated, I will host all of my data gathering online. As such, I will have no need to directly contact my subjects, as all participants can take part in my research from the safety from their own home. My professor and I have kept in adequate contact thus far through email and Slack, and we will continue to do so through Zoom and email. 
